Finally a decent  Nintendo DS game
##################################
:date: 2005-07-10 10:57:37

Well I traded in Batman Begins because I beat it and there wasn't much
more to do with it. I looked around the Gamestop and I didn't really see
any XBox games that really interested me. I want to tryout Paper Mario
for the Gamecube but it was $10 more than the store credit I had for
Batman.

While I was looking for a game, Gina was playing a game on the Nintendo
DS demos. I couldn't really find anything. I went over to see what Gina
was playing and it was "Kirby Canvas Curse". I thought, "Oh great,
another 'Yoshi's Touch and Go' (A really bad game)". After that we got
the clerk to help us find something.

The clerk was helpful in helping me find some XBox games. He recomended
some first person shooters but frankly I've been playing FPSes since the
first Wolfenstein and I'm a little bored with that genre. Although XIII
was an awesome FPS. I recomend grabbing that if you haven't played it
yet. He then recommended one of the Mech series games and Buffy the
Vampire Slayer. I was willing to finally give a Mech game a try since
they have some hardcore fans and must be a something to that. The clerk
recommended Buffy, which is a third person action game, he said that it
was surpisingly a good game and he doesn't care for Buffy. So I said
what the hell (Maybe there is a Willow naked cheat j/k).

While we were waiting in line, I thought I'd try out Kirby's Canvas
Curse to see if it was anything good. I played it for about two minutes
and then I put the other games back and grabbed a copy of Kirby.

Kirby's Canvas Curse (KCC) is a very cool game. It's just like the other
Kirby games except the you don't control Kirby with the keypads, you
direct them with the stylus. At first it's seems like a really annoying
way the control the character, especially if you played Yoshi's Touch
and Go. However, this game got it right.

Gameplay is like this. Kirby is a ball and he continuously moving. You
can draw lines and he will roll on the line in the direction that you
draw the line. It sounds simply but its really isn't, you have to
maneuver Kirby around all kinds of obsticles, block laser beems with you
lines, block those pesky cannon balls, etc. It makes it extremly
entertaining. Perhaps Yoshi's Touch and Go might of been this much fun
if it was longer and more inventive, however it was so short that it was
really nothing more than a puzzle game masked as a platformer.

Oh course the usual Kirby abilities are in this game. It wouldn't be
Kirby without the cool ass power-ups. The Boss Levels aren't like the
other Kirby games where you just tediously battle it out with them. They
take the form of mini-games (A NDS specialty).

There are three bosses that I'm aware of. The first is that annoying
Cloud guy that shoots lightning. He's a little more tame in this game,
however the mini game is the fun part. It's a Kirby version of Breakout.
instead of a paddle on the bottom, you draw you paddle to direct Kirby.
The object of the minigame is to clear each board of the enemies by
directing Kirby into them.

The second is a race against the King Penguin guy, I can't remember his
name. You steer kirby by dragging his cart with the stylus and if you
steer him into food, his gets a boost. I don't really care for this one.

The third boss is the Painter guy. What you have to do is recreate the
drawings he does before kirby walks from the left side of the screen to
the left.

In the end, I think that this game is a great adaptation of the 2d Kirby
series to the NDS.
