Old and Busted: Bloglines, New Hotness: litefeeds
#################################################
:date: 2005-10-09 00:08:45

Ever since I signed up for bloglines I kept thinking, "Man, RSS feeds
are perfect for cell-phones". I flirted with the idea of creating a RSS
aggregator that outputted the content in xhtml-mp for my mobile browser.
Then I found `litefeeds`_ and life is good.

Litefeeds just like bloglines it's a web based RSS reader, but it has
one feature that Bloglines doesn't have, a j2me app for your cellphone.
What does that me to you? It means that you can get your feeds on your
java enabled phone. That's awesome.

Other features: The ability to view images from users of flikr on your
phone, import from opml and therefore import from bloglines.

Another cool feature, bloglines has this but it's infinately better on
your phone, it's the "clip it" function. What it does is save the
article into an online clipboard so that you can read it later. You can
do this on your phone, it's a minute detail that I'm very glad they
included it.

Check it, let's say `Life Hacker`_, which showcases useful apps and
sites, has an article reviewing an awesome application. I'm standing in
line at the DMV, I can't check out the application right at that moment,
but the article convinced me that this is **the** killer app and I
**need** to check it out. So, I clip it. When I get back home from DMV
hell, I can open up my laptop, bring up the site and get hip to that new
app. Awesome or what?

There are a few features that I would add if I was in charge. One would
be displaying of images via an RSS' encloser tag so that I can get
Dilbert's feeds on my phone. If they can display flikr images on the
phone, there's no reason why we couldn't get that to work. Another
feature would be a "Add to litefeeds" type button for our blogs, MyYahoo
has it, Bloglines has it, no reason litefeeds shouldn't. A bookmarklet
would be nice too.

Enjoy.

.. _litefeeds: http://litefeeds.com
.. _Life Hacker: http://www.lifehacker.com/
