URGE and iTunes
###############
:date: 2006-06-20 09:30:18

I got a chance to take a look at Vista Beta 2. While I'm not normally a
guy that likes MS products. At first glance, Vista looks good. I could
never forget what my wife said when I showed it to here, "That looks
like Linux". What?

Anyhow, this post is not about Vista, but a service that comes bundled
with Vista called, URGE. URGE is Microsoft's and MTV's joint venture
into the online music sales market. There is one good thing with the
service and a few flaws I see with the service.

One of the good things with the service is that you can pay a flat rate
every month, $14.95 I believe, and download as much as you want. That
sounds like a deal to me. I see many music pirates going legit with such
a plan. I just hope they don't screw the pooch on this one and make the
songs expire after a month.

And now for the problems I see. URGE is bundled with Vista. This
technique has proven a dangerous practice with Microsoft \*\*cough IE
\*\*. What I see happening is other music services will cry and say that
because URGE is preinstalled, it's hard to get customers.

The second problem is that URGE doesn't work with iPods. It uses MS'
Play's for Sure DRM with works with just about every portable music
player I've seen except the iPod. I don't know if this was a great plan
on Microsoft's part to get all those pmp's out there to gang up on the
iPod, but all those iPod owners are gonna see that the iPod restricts
them to giving Apple money via the iTunes music store and that they have
no freedom of choice (i.e. Apples' Monopoly on iPod's money).

While I don't think the second flaw is a flaw with URGE, but more a
revelation of Apple locking iPod owners to iTunes when legally
purchasing music. There will be two outcomes to this revelation. Apple
will open on their AAC DRM to others, so that other services can provide
music for the iPod. The other outcome will be that iPod's will provide
support for MS' Play's for Sure DRM. Both outcomes means a loss of
control for Apple.

We'll see what happens, until the war of the DRM's begins, iPod owners
will be left in out of URGE's 14.95/mo unlimited downloads and will
either pay Mr. Jobs for their music or continue pirating.

