We survived.
############
:date: 2005-11-06 20:03:53

We finally got the our electric back since Hurricane Wilma. I just
wanted to let everyone know that we survived and we are safe. We
evaculated to Fort Lauderdale thinking that we'd be safer by putting 100
miles of land between us and were the hurricane makes landfall. If
anyone was watching this monster of a hurricane, Wilma was perdicted to
pass her eye directly over Naples, Fl. So prior to the Wilma's attack on
Florida, we thought that getting the hell out of dodge would be wise.

Unfortunately, Fort Lauderdale was not ready for being raped by the
hurricane. We ended up getting stranded in Fort Lauderdale because no
gas stations were opened after the storm. Slowly stations opened but
with millions without power and millions using generators to watch tv
and have lights, chaos insued. There were/are miles of lines up to the
few stations opened. People waited in lines for hours. Some people were
unfortunate enough to wait in a line at a gas station that was never
going to open and they waited all day for gas and never got it. It was
insane. As far as I know, this is still happening.

Because of the gas shortage, we were stranded in Fort Lauderdale. Our
friend owns a pizzaria and because they have a gas pizza oven they were
still being able to make pizza. So being stranded in Fort Lauderdale
wasn't all bad, we were getting hot meals, can't complain there. Someone
who came in for a hot pizza told he about how he drove to Fort Myers (a
little north of Naples) and filled up his truck and all his gas cans and
drove back.

So, our friend came back from the restuarant and told us his master plan
of driving to Naples and grabbing as much gas as we could. By this time,
Naples was basically up and running aside from some residencial power
outages. Our car was on E so without gas, we were stranded in Fort
Lauderdale.

Driving an hour and a half to Naples was much better than waiting in
line four hours for a chance to get gas, no guarntee at getting gas,
just for the chance the get gas. So my wife, our friend and I packed up
the baby, hopped in her car and drove to Naples.

When we arrived in Naples, we gased up the car and searched for gas
cans. We had one flaw in our plan. We expected Naples to have gas cans
available to bring back to Fort Lauderdale to fill up our dry car. With
tens of thousands of residents without power, people needed gas cans to
keep their generators running. We drove to Super Walmart... No cans.. We
drove to Home Depot... No cans... We drove to Target... No cans...

We drove to Lowes and finally we found six gas cans. We filled up the
cans and drove back to Fort Lauderdale. That night, we filled up our car
and drove home. It was quite an adventure.
